=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To temporarily increase the cost share authority for aqueous film forming foam input-based testing equipment, and for other purposes.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
        Preventing PFAS Runoff at Airports Act
    .
    2.
    Header: Temporary increased cost share authority for aqueous film forming foam input-based testing equipment
      (a)
      Header: In general
      Section 47109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
          (g)
          Header: Special rule for covered equipment
            (1)
            Header: In general
            The Government’s share of allowable project costs for covered equipment and its installation shall be 100 percent.
            (2)
            Header: Definition of covered equipment
            For purposes of this subsection, the term
              covered equipment
            means aqueous film forming foam input-based testing equipment that is eligible for Airport Improvement Program funding based on Federal Aviation Administration PGL 21–01, titled
              Extension of Eligibility for stand-alone acquisition of input-based testing equipment and truck modification
            , dated October 5, 2021 (or any other successor program guidance letter).
            (3)
            Header: Sunset
            The higher cost share authority established in this subsection shall terminate on the earlier of—
              (A)
              180 days after the date on which the eligibility of covered equipment for Airport Improvement Program funding under the authority described in paragraph (2) terminates or is discontinued by the Administrator; or
              (B)
              5 years after the date of enactment of this subsection.
        .
      (b)
      Header: Outreach efforts
      Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall conduct an outreach effort to make airports aware of the higher cost share authority established in section 47109(g) of title 49, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
      (c)
      Header: Forward-looking airport reimbursements
      Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that reviews—
        (1)
        potential options for Congress to reimburse airports that—
          (A)
          are certificated under part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations; and
          (B)
          acquired covered equipment (as defined in section 47109(g) of title 49, United States Code) as added by subsection (a)—
            (i)
            with Federal funding but with a Government’s share less than 100 percent; or
            (ii)
            without Federal funding;
        (2)
        information relevant to estimating the potential cost of providing such reimbursement;
        (3)
        the status of the Federal Aviation Administration’s outreach efforts as required under subsection (b); and
        (4)
        any additional information the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration considers appropriate.
      (d)
      Header: Authorization of appropriations
      The amendments made by this Act shall apply to amounts that first become available in fiscal year 2023 or thereafter.
