=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To require Amtrak to report to Congress information on Amtrak compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 with respect to trains and stations.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
        Think Differently Transportation Act
    .
    2.
    Header: Report on Amtrak ADA compliance
    Section 24315(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
      (1)
      in paragraph (1)—
        (A)
        in subparagraph (B), by striking
          and
        at the end;
        (B)
        in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
        (C)
        by adding at the end the following:
            (D)
            shall include an action plan for bringing Amtrak-served stations that are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
              42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
            ) into compliance with such Act, as required by the settlement agreement entered into in 2020 between Amtrak and the Department of Justice;
            (E)
            shall include a status report on—
              (i)
              Amtrak-served stations for which Amtrak is solely responsible for compliance with such Act based on a station assessment carried out by Amtrak, including a timeline for any required compliance with such Act, as required by the settlement agreement;
              (ii)
              Amtrak-served stations for which Amtrak has a shared responsibility for compliance with such Act based on a station assessment carried out by Amtrak or by the party responsible for such compliance, including a timeline for any required compliance with such Act for the portions of the station for which Amtrak is the responsible party consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, identifying who is responsible for compliance (and the status of the compliance of each responsible party with such Act) for such portions and the timeline for compliance in cases in which Amtrak is not the responsible party; and
              (iii)
              the status of compliance with such Act for all Amtrak-served stations for which Amtrak is not the responsible party, nor is responsible for a portion of the station, and identify the entity or entities that have responsibility for compliance with such Act, based on a station assessment carried out by Amtrak or the party responsible under such Act.
          ; and
      (2)
      by adding at the end the following:
          (3)
          Amtrak may meet the requirements described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (1)(E) by demonstrating that Amtrak took reasonable measures to obtain cooperation from responsible entities.
          (4)
          Amtrak shall submit the action plan and status report required under subparagraphs (D) and (E) of paragraph (1)—
            (A)
            annually while the settlement agreement referred to in paragraph (1)(D) is in effect; and
            (B)
            every 5 years beginning on the first day the settlement is no longer in effect.
        .
