

(50109.) Rural and low-income water assistance pilot program: 

(a) (a) Definitions In this section: (1) (1) Eligible entity The term eligible entity means— (A) (A) a municipality, Tribal government, or other entity that— (i) (i) owns or operates a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; or (ii) (ii) as determined by the Administrator, has taken on an unsustainable level of debt due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; and (B) (B) a State exercising primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as applicable. (2) (2) Pilot program The term pilot program means the pilot program established by the Administrator under subsection (b)(1). (3) (3) Water services needs assessment The term water services needs assessment means the report required under section 50108(b)(1)..(1) (1) Eligible entity The term eligible entity means— (A) (A) a municipality, Tribal government, or other entity that— (i) (i) owns or operates a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; or (ii) (ii) as determined by the Administrator, has taken on an unsustainable level of debt due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; and (B) (B) a State exercising primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as applicable..(A) (A) a municipality, Tribal government, or other entity that— (i) (i) owns or operates a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; or (ii) (ii) as determined by the Administrator, has taken on an unsustainable level of debt due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; and.(i) (i) owns or operates a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; or.(ii) (ii) as determined by the Administrator, has taken on an unsustainable level of debt due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system; and.(B) (B) a State exercising primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as applicable..(2) (2) Pilot program The term pilot program means the pilot program established by the Administrator under subsection (b)(1)..(3) (3) Water services needs assessment The term water services needs assessment means the report required under section 50108(b)(1)..(b) (b) Establishment (1) (1) In general Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a pilot program to award grants to eligible entities to develop and implement programs to assist qualifying households with need in maintaining access to drinking water and wastewater treatment. (2) (2) Requirement In establishing the pilot program, the Administrator shall ensure that data from the water services needs assessment directly contributes to the structure of the pilot program by informing the types of assistance and criteria used for priority consideration with the demonstrated need from the study conducted under section 50108(b)(1) and the water services needs assessment. (3) (3) Use of funds limitations A grant under the pilot program— (A) (A) shall not be used to replace funds for any existing similar program; but (B) (B) may be used to supplement or enhance an existing program, including a program that receives assistance from other Federal grants. (4) (4) Term The term of a grant awarded under the pilot program shall be subject to the availability of appropriations. (5) (5) Types of assistance In establishing the pilot program, the Administrator may include provisions for— (A) (A) direct financial assistance; (B) (B) a lifeline rate; (C) (C) bill discounting; (D) (D) special hardship provisions; (E) (E) a percentage-of-income payment plan; or (F) (F) debt relief for the eligible entity or the community water system owned by the eligible entity for debt that is due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by the eligible entity or the community water system that is determined by the Administrator to be in the interest of public health. (6) (6) Requirement The Administrator shall award not more than 40 grants under the pilot program, of which— (A) (A) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own, operate, or exercise primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), as applicable; (B) (B) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a medium water service provider; (C) (C) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves not more than 500,000 people; (D) (D) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves more than 500,000 people; and (E) (E) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system that services a disadvantaged community (consistent with the affordability criteria established by the applicable State under section 1452(d)(3) of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)(3) ) or section 603(i)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1383(i)(2) ), as applicable). (7) (7) Criteria In addition to any priority criteria established by the Administrator in response to the findings in the water services needs assessment, in awarding grants under the pilot program, the Administrator shall give priority consideration to eligible entities that— (A) (A) serve a disproportionate percentage, as determined by the Administrator, of qualifying households with need, as identified in the water services needs assessment; (B) (B) are subject to State or Federal enforcement actions relating to compliance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ) or the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ); or (C) (C) maintain or participate in an existing community assistance program with objectives similar to the objectives of the pilot program, as determined by the Administrator. (8) (8) Reporting requirements (A) (A) In general In addition to any other applicable Federal or agency-specific grant reporting requirements, as a condition of receiving a grant under the pilot program, an eligible entity (or a State, on behalf of an eligible entity) shall submit to the Administrator an annual report that summarizes, in a manner determined by the Administrator, the use of grant funds by the eligible entity, including— (i) (i) key features of the assistance provided by the eligible entity; (ii) (ii) sources of funding used to supplement Federal funds; and (iii) (iii) eligibility criteria. (B) (B) Publication The Administrator shall publish each report submitted under subparagraph (A)..(1) (1) In general Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a pilot program to award grants to eligible entities to develop and implement programs to assist qualifying households with need in maintaining access to drinking water and wastewater treatment..(2) (2) Requirement In establishing the pilot program, the Administrator shall ensure that data from the water services needs assessment directly contributes to the structure of the pilot program by informing the types of assistance and criteria used for priority consideration with the demonstrated need from the study conducted under section 50108(b)(1) and the water services needs assessment..(3) (3) Use of funds limitations A grant under the pilot program— (A) (A) shall not be used to replace funds for any existing similar program; but (B) (B) may be used to supplement or enhance an existing program, including a program that receives assistance from other Federal grants..(A) (A) shall not be used to replace funds for any existing similar program; but.(B) (B) may be used to supplement or enhance an existing program, including a program that receives assistance from other Federal grants..(4) (4) Term The term of a grant awarded under the pilot program shall be subject to the availability of appropriations..(5) (5) Types of assistance In establishing the pilot program, the Administrator may include provisions for— (A) (A) direct financial assistance; (B) (B) a lifeline rate; (C) (C) bill discounting; (D) (D) special hardship provisions; (E) (E) a percentage-of-income payment plan; or (F) (F) debt relief for the eligible entity or the community water system owned by the eligible entity for debt that is due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by the eligible entity or the community water system that is determined by the Administrator to be in the interest of public health..(A) (A) direct financial assistance;.(B) (B) a lifeline rate;.(C) (C) bill discounting;.(D) (D) special hardship provisions;.(E) (E) a percentage-of-income payment plan; or.(F) (F) debt relief for the eligible entity or the community water system owned by the eligible entity for debt that is due to customer nonpayment for the services provided by the eligible entity or the community water system that is determined by the Administrator to be in the interest of public health..(6) (6) Requirement The Administrator shall award not more than 40 grants under the pilot program, of which— (A) (A) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own, operate, or exercise primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as applicable; (B) (B) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a medium water service provider; (C) (C) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves not more than 500,000 people; (D) (D) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves more than 500,000 people; and (E) (E) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system that services a disadvantaged community (consistent with the affordability criteria established by the applicable State under section 1452(d)(3) of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)(3) ) or section 603(i)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1383(i)(2) ), as applicable)..(A) (A) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own, operate, or exercise primary enforcement responsibility over a rural water service provider under the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ) or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as applicable;.(B) (B) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a medium water service provider;.(C) (C) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves not more than 500,000 people;.(D) (D) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a large water service provider that serves more than 500,000 people; and.(E) (E) not more than 8 shall be to eligible entities that own or operate a community water system, treatment works, or municipal separate storm sewer system that services a disadvantaged community (consistent with the affordability criteria established by the applicable State under section 1452(d)(3) of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)(3) ) or section 603(i)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1383(i)(2) ), as applicable)..(7) (7) Criteria In addition to any priority criteria established by the Administrator in response to the findings in the water services needs assessment, in awarding grants under the pilot program, the Administrator shall give priority consideration to eligible entities that— (A) (A) serve a disproportionate percentage, as determined by the Administrator, of qualifying households with need, as identified in the water services needs assessment; (B) (B) are subject to State or Federal enforcement actions relating to compliance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ) or the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ); or (C) (C) maintain or participate in an existing community assistance program with objectives similar to the objectives of the pilot program, as determined by the Administrator..(A) (A) serve a disproportionate percentage, as determined by the Administrator, of qualifying households with need, as identified in the water services needs assessment;.(B) (B) are subject to State or Federal enforcement actions relating to compliance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ) or the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. ); or.(C) (C) maintain or participate in an existing community assistance program with objectives similar to the objectives of the pilot program, as determined by the Administrator..(8) (8) Reporting requirements (A) (A) In general In addition to any other applicable Federal or agency-specific grant reporting requirements, as a condition of receiving a grant under the pilot program, an eligible entity (or a State, on behalf of an eligible entity) shall submit to the Administrator an annual report that summarizes, in a manner determined by the Administrator, the use of grant funds by the eligible entity, including— (i) (i) key features of the assistance provided by the eligible entity; (ii) (ii) sources of funding used to supplement Federal funds; and (iii) (iii) eligibility criteria. (B) (B) Publication The Administrator shall publish each report submitted under subparagraph (A)..(A) (A) In general In addition to any other applicable Federal or agency-specific grant reporting requirements, as a condition of receiving a grant under the pilot program, an eligible entity (or a State, on behalf of an eligible entity) shall submit to the Administrator an annual report that summarizes, in a manner determined by the Administrator, the use of grant funds by the eligible entity, including— (i) (i) key features of the assistance provided by the eligible entity; (ii) (ii) sources of funding used to supplement Federal funds; and (iii) (iii) eligibility criteria..(i) (i) key features of the assistance provided by the eligible entity;.(ii) (ii) sources of funding used to supplement Federal funds; and.(iii) (iii) eligibility criteria..(B) (B) Publication The Administrator shall publish each report submitted under subparagraph (A)..(c) (c) Technical assistance The Administrator shall provide technical assistance to each eligible entity, and each State, on behalf of an eligible entity, that receives a grant under the pilot program to support implementation of the program..(d) (d) Report Not later than 2 years after the date on which grant funds are first disbursed to an eligible entity (or a State, on behalf of an eligible entity) under the program, and every year thereafter for the duration of the terms of the grants, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the pilot program..