

(50251.) Leasing on the outer Continental Shelf: 

(a) (a) Leasing authorized The Secretary may grant leases, easements, and rights-of-way pursuant to section 8(p)(1)(C) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1337(p)(1)(C) ) in an area withdrawn by— (1) (1) the Presidential memorandum entitled Memorandum on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition and dated September 8, 2020; or (2) (2) the Presidential memorandum entitled Presidential Determination on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition and dated September 25, 2020..(1) (1) the Presidential memorandum entitled Memorandum on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition and dated September 8, 2020; or.(2) (2) the Presidential memorandum entitled Presidential Determination on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition and dated September 25, 2020..(b) (b) Offshore wind for the territories (1) (1) Application of outer continental shelf lands act with respect to territories of the united states (A) (A) In general Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 ) is amended— (i) (i) in subsection (a)— (I) (I) by striking means all and inserting the following: “means— (1) (1) all ; and (II) (II) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking control; and inserting the following: control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and ; and (III) (III) by adding at the end following: (2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration; ; (ii) (ii) in subsection (p), by striking and after the semicolon at the end; (iii) (iii) in subsection (q), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and ; and (iv) (iv) by adding at the end the following: (r) (r) The term State means— (1) (1) each of the several States; (2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (3) (3) Guam; (4) (4) American Samoa; (5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and (6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. . (B) (B) Exclusions Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1344 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (i) (i) Application This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. . (2) (2) Wind lease sales for areas of the outer continental shelf The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 33. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer continental shelf offshore of territories of the united states (a) (a) Wind lease sales off coasts of territories of the united states (1) (1) Call for information and nominations (A) (A) In general The Secretary shall issue calls for information and nominations for proposed wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf described in paragraph (2) that are determined to be feasible. (B) (B) Initial call Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall issue an initial call for information and nominations under this paragraph.(2) (2) Conditional wind lease sales The Secretary may conduct wind lease sales in each area within the exclusive economic zone of the United States adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands that meets each of the following criteria: (A) (A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease sale in the area is feasible. (B) (B) The Secretary has determined that there is sufficient interest in leasing the area. (C) (C) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor of the territory regarding the suitability of the area for wind energy development. ..(1) (1) Application of outer continental shelf lands act with respect to territories of the united states (A) (A) In general Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 ) is amended— (i) (i) in subsection (a)— (I) (I) by striking means all and inserting the following: “means— (1) (1) all ; and (II) (II) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking control; and inserting the following: control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and ; and (III) (III) by adding at the end following: (2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration; ; (ii) (ii) in subsection (p), by striking and after the semicolon at the end; (iii) (iii) in subsection (q), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and ; and (iv) (iv) by adding at the end the following: (r) (r) The term State means— (1) (1) each of the several States; (2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (3) (3) Guam; (4) (4) American Samoa; (5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and (6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. . (B) (B) Exclusions Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1344 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (i) (i) Application This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. ..(A) (A) In general Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 ) is amended— (i) (i) in subsection (a)— (I) (I) by striking means all and inserting the following: “means— (1) (1) all ; and (II) (II) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking control; and inserting the following: control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and ; and (III) (III) by adding at the end following: (2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration; ; (ii) (ii) in subsection (p), by striking and after the semicolon at the end; (iii) (iii) in subsection (q), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and ; and (iv) (iv) by adding at the end the following: (r) (r) The term State means— (1) (1) each of the several States; (2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (3) (3) Guam; (4) (4) American Samoa; (5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and (6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. ..(i) (i) in subsection (a)— (I) (I) by striking means all and inserting the following: “means— (1) (1) all ; and (II) (II) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking control; and inserting the following: control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and ; and (III) (III) by adding at the end following: (2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration; ;.(I) (I) by striking means all and inserting the following: “means— (1) (1) all ; and.(1) (1) all.(II) (II) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking control; and inserting the following: control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and ; and.(III) (III) by adding at the end following: (2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration; ;.(2) (2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration;.(ii) (ii) in subsection (p), by striking and after the semicolon at the end;.(iii) (iii) in subsection (q), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and ; and.(iv) (iv) by adding at the end the following: (r) (r) The term State means— (1) (1) each of the several States; (2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (3) (3) Guam; (4) (4) American Samoa; (5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and (6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. ..(r) (r) The term State means— (1) (1) each of the several States; (2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (3) (3) Guam; (4) (4) American Samoa; (5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and (6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands..(1) (1) each of the several States;.(2) (2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;.(3) (3) Guam;.(4) (4) American Samoa;.(5) (5) the United States Virgin Islands; and.(6) (6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands..(B) (B) Exclusions Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1344 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (i) (i) Application This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. ..(i) (i) Application This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands..(2) (2) Wind lease sales for areas of the outer continental shelf The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 33. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer continental shelf offshore of territories of the united states (a) (a) Wind lease sales off coasts of territories of the united states (1) (1) Call for information and nominations (A) (A) In general The Secretary shall issue calls for information and nominations for proposed wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf described in paragraph (2) that are determined to be feasible. (B) (B) Initial call Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall issue an initial call for information and nominations under this paragraph. (2) (2) Conditional wind lease sales The Secretary may conduct wind lease sales in each area within the exclusive economic zone of the United States adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands that meets each of the following criteria: (A) (A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease sale in the area is feasible. (B) (B) The Secretary has determined that there is sufficient interest in leasing the area. (C) (C) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor of the territory regarding the suitability of the area for wind energy development. ..