=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to preserve access to rehabilitation innovation centers under the Medicare program.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
        Dr. Joanne Smith Memorial Rehabilitation Innovation Centers Act of 2022
    .
    2.
    Header: Preserving access to rehabilitation innovation centers under Medicare
      (a)
      Header: In general
      Section 1886(j)(7)(E) of the Social Security Act (
        42 U.S.C. 1395ww(j)(7)(E)
      ) is amended—
        (1)
        by striking
            Public availability of data submitted
          .—The
        and inserting “
          Public availability of data submitted
        .—
            (i)
            Header: In general
            The
          ; and
        (2)
        by inserting after clause (i), as redesignated by paragraph (1), the following new clauses:
            (ii)
            Header: Public recognition of rehabilitation innovation centers
            Beginning not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this clause, the Secretary shall make publicly available on such Internet website, in addition to the information required to be reported on such website under clause (i), a list of all rehabilitation innovation centers, and shall update such list on such website not less frequently than biennially.
            (iii)
            Header: Rehabilitation innovation centers defined
            For purposes of clause (ii), the term
              rehabilitation innovation centers
            means a rehabilitation facility that, as of the applicable date (as defined in clause (v)), is a rehabilitation facility described in clause (iv).
            (iv)
            Header: Rehabilitation facility described
              (I)
              Header: In general
              Subject to subclause (II), a rehabilitation facility described in this clause is a rehabilitation facility that—
                (aa)
                is classified as a rehabilitation facility under the IRF Rate Setting File for the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System for Federal Fiscal Year 2019 (83 Fed. Reg. 38514), or any successor regulations that contain such information;
                (bb)
                holds at least one Federal rehabilitation research and training designation for research projects on traumatic brain injury or spinal cord injury from the National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research at the Department of Health and Human Services, based on such data submitted to the Secretary by a facility, in a form, manner, and time frame specified by the Secretary;
                (cc)
                submits to the Secretary a description of the clinical research enterprise of the facility and a summary of research activities of the facility that are supported by Federal agencies;
                (dd)
                has a minimum Medicare estimated average weight per discharge of 1.20 for the most recent fiscal year for which such information is available according to the IRF Rate Setting File described in item (aa), or any successor regulations that contain such information; and
                (ee)
                has a minimum teaching status of 0.075 for the most recent fiscal year for which such information is available according to the IRF Rate Setting File described in item (aa), or any successor regulations that contain such information.
              (II)
              Header: Waiver
              The Secretary may, as determined appropriate, waive any of the requirements under items (aa) through (ee) of subclause (I).
            (v)
            Header: Applicable date defined
            For purposes of clauses (iii) and (iv), the term
              applicable date
            means—
              (I)
              with respect to the initial publication of a list under clause (ii), the date of the enactment of such clause; and
              (II)
              with respect to the publication of an updated list under clause (ii), a date specified by the Secretary that is not more than one year prior to the date of such publication.
            (vi)
            Header: Implementation
            Notwithstanding any other provision of law the Secretary may implement clauses (ii) through (v) by program instruction or otherwise.
            (vii)
            Header: Nonapplication of Paperwork Reduction Act
              Chapter 35
            of title 44, United States Code, shall not apply to data collected under clauses (ii) through (v).
          .
      (b)
      Header: Report
      Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services—
        (1)
        shall submit to Congress a report containing any recommendations on action as the Secretary determines appropriate to preserve access to rehabilitation innovation centers (as defined in section 1886(j)(7)(E)(iii) of the Social Security Act, as added by subsection (a)); and
        (2)
        may, in the report described in paragraph (1), as permitted by law, disseminate research, best practices, and other clinical information identified or developed by such rehabilitation innovation centers, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
