=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a website to promote awareness of available resources for individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
        Think Differently Database Act
    .
    2.
    Header: Promoting awareness of available resources for individuals with disabilities
      (a)
      Header: In general
      Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
        Secretary
      ) shall establish and update periodically a publicly available website to provide information with respect to resources and information for people with a disability and the caregivers and families of such people. Such website shall include—
        (1)
        information on eligibility to receive medical assistance under a State plan under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
          42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
        ) (or a waiver of such plan) based on a disability, including general information about eligibility under subclauses (XIII), (XV), (XVI), and (XIX) of section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii) of the Social Security Act (
          42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(ii)
        );
        (2)
        which States offer eligibility under subclauses (XIII), (XV), (XVI), and (XIX) of section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii) of the Social Security Act (
          42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(ii)
        );
        (3)
        each State’s specific eligibility requirements, if applicable, under subclauses (XIII), (XV), (XVI), and (XIX) of section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii) of the Social Security Act (
          42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(ii)
        );
        (4)
        information about how to contact each State’s Medicaid office for information about Medicaid, including links and phone numbers for State contacts;
        (5)
        general information on Medicaid-covered long-term services and supports that may be available to individuals eligible for medical assistance under a State plan under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
          42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
        ) (or a waiver of such plan); and
        (6)
        where applicable, the average amount of time that individuals newly enrolled in a State’s waiver program for home and community-based services in the past 12 months were on the list of individuals waiting to enroll in such waiver program, in such a manner and process as described in section 441.311(d)(1)(iii) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations.
      (b)
      Header: Promotion
      The Secretary shall, as applicable and appropriate, identify and disseminate promotional activities to improve, among people with a disability and the caretakers and families of such people, the awareness of the resources included in the website established under subsection (a), such as through collaboration with the Social Security Administration during its annual updates to the Red Book.
      (c)
      Header: Model
      In establishing the website under this section, the Secretary may use the website thinkdifferently.net as a model.
      (d)
      Header: Nonapplication of Paperwork Reduction Act
        Chapter 35
      of title 44, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
        Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
      ), shall not apply to the implementation of this section.
