=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To ensure that the Federal Communications Commission prohibits authorization of radio frequency devices that pose a national security risk.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
        Secure Equipment Act of 2021
    .
    2.
    Header: Updates to equipment authorization process of Federal Communications Commission
      (a)
      Header: Rulemaking
        (1)
        Header: In general
        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall adopt rules in the proceeding initiated in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the matter of Protecting Against National Security Threats to the Communications Supply Chain through the Equipment Authorization Program (ET Docket No. 21–232; FCC 21–73; adopted June 17, 2021), in accordance with paragraph (2), to update the equipment authorization procedures of the Commission.
        (2)
        Header: Updates required
        In the rules adopted under paragraph (1), the Commission shall clarify that the Commission will no longer review or approve any application for equipment authorization for equipment that is on the list of covered communications equipment or services published by the Commission under section 2(a) of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 (
          47 U.S.C. 1601(a)
        ).
        (3)
        Header: Applicability
          (A)
          Header: In general
          In the rules adopted under paragraph (1), the Commission may not provide for review or revocation of any equipment authorization granted before the date on which such rules are adopted on the basis of the equipment being on the list described in paragraph (2).
          (B)
          Header: Rule of construction
          Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit the Commission, other than in the rules adopted under paragraph (1), from—
            (i)
            examining the necessity of review or revocation of any equipment authorization on the basis of the equipment being on the list described in paragraph (2); or
            (ii)
            adopting rules providing for any such review or revocation.
      (b)
      Header: Definition
      In this section, the term
        Commission
      means the Federal Communications Commission.
