=== OFFICIAL TITLE ===
To establish a task force on improvements for notices to air missions, and for other purposes.

=== STRUCTURED BODY ===
    1.
    Header: Short title
    This Act may be cited as the
          NOTAM Improvement Act of 2023
    .
    2.
    Header: FAA Task Force on NOTAM Improvement
      (a)
      Header: Establishment
      Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall establish a task force to be known as the FAA Task Force on NOTAM Improvement (in this section referred to as the
        Task Force
      ).
      (b)
      Header: Composition
      The Task Force shall consist of members appointed by the Administrator, including at least one member of each of the following:
        (1)
        Air carrier representatives.
        (2)
        Airport representatives.
        (3)
        Labor union representatives of airline pilots.
        (4)
        Labor union representatives of aircraft dispatchers.
        (5)
        The labor union certified under section 7111 of title 5, United States Code, to represent FAA air traffic control specialists assigned to the United States NOTAMs Office.
        (6)
        The labor union certified under section 7111 of title 5, United States Code, to represent FAA aeronautical information specialists.
        (7)
        General and business aviation representatives.
        (8)
        Aviation safety experts with knowledge of NOTAMs.
        (9)
        Human factors experts.
        (10)
        Computer system architecture and cybersecurity experts.
      (c)
      Header: Duties
      The duties of the Task Force shall include—
        (1)
        reviewing existing methods for publishing NOTAMs and flight operations information to pilots;
        (2)
        reviewing regulations, policies, systems, and international standards relating to NOTAMs, including their content and presentation to pilots;
        (3)
        evaluating and determining best practices to organize, prioritize, and present flight operations information in a manner that optimizes pilot review and retention of relevant information; and
        (4)
        providing recommendations for—
          (A)
          improving the publication and delivery of NOTAM information in a manner that prioritizes or highlights the most important information, and optimizes pilot review and retention of relevant information;
          (B)
          ways to ensure that NOTAMs are complete, accurate, timely, relevant to safe flight operations, and contain pertinent information;
          (C)
          any best practices that the FAA should consider to improve the accuracy and understandability of NOTAMs and the display of flight operations information;
          (D)
          ways to work with air carriers, other airspace users, and aviation service providers to implement solutions that are aligned with the recommendations under this paragraph; and
          (E)
          ways to ensure the stability, resiliency, and cybersecurity of the NOTAM computer system.
      (d)
      Header: Report
      Not later than 1 year after the date of the establishment of the Task Force, the Task Force shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report detailing—
        (1)
        the results of the reviews and evaluations of the Task Force under paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (c);
        (2)
        the best practices identified and recommendations provided by the Task Force under subsection (c)(4);
        (3)
        any recommendations of the Task Force for additional regulatory or policy actions to improve the publication of NOTAMs; and
        (4)
        the degree to which implementing the recommendations of the Task Force described under paragraph (2) will address National Transportation Safety Board Safety Recommendation A–18–024.
      (e)
      Header: Applicable law
        Chapter 10
      of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to the Task Force.
      (f)
      Header: Sunset
      The Task Force shall terminate on the later of—
        (1)
        the date on which the Task Force submits the report required under subsection (d); or
        (2)
        the date that is 18 months after the date on which the Task Force is established under subsection (a).
      (g)
      Header: Authority
      The Administrator shall have the authority to carry out the recommendations of the Task Force detailed in the report required under subsection (d).
      (h)
      Header: Rule of construction
      Nothing in this section may be construed to require the FAA to duplicate any prior, ongoing, or planned efforts related to the improvement of NOTAMs, including any efforts related to implementing any previously enacted requirements.
      (i)
      Header: Definitions
      In this section:
        (1)
        Header: FAA
        The term
          FAA
        means the Federal Aviation Administration.
        (2)
        Header: NOTAM
        The term
          NOTAM
        means a notice containing information (which is not known sufficiently in advance to publicize by other means) concerning the establishment, condition, or change in any component (including a facility, service, or procedure thereof) or hazard in the National Airspace System, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel concerned with flight operations.
    3.
    Header: Additional requirements
    Not later than September 30, 2024, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall make the following improvements:
      (1)
      Complete implementation of a Federal NOTAM System (in this section referred to as a
        FNS
      ).
      (2)
      Implement a back-up system to the FNS.
      (3)
      Brief the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on a plan to enhance the capability to deliver information through the FNS that is machine-readable, filterable, and in the format used by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to promote further global harmonization among neighboring Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) and provide users of the National Airspace System with one consistent format for domestic and international operations.
